---
layout: post-light-feature
title: Spectacle, Images and its power
description: The reading fits really well with Guy Debord's "Society of the Spectacle."
categories: articles
date: 17/09/24
image: null
published: true
---

The reading fits really well with Guy Debord's "Society of the Spectacle." In this book, Debord writes about how social life has been replaced with mere representation.  He means to say that over the course of history as capitalism grew and with it commodity fetishism became more apparent it affected the way human lives are reformed. Debord argues that the way lives changed as a result of capitalism is through three phases: Firstly living, then it became having to transforming into merely appearing. In this case the whole of human interactions are based in a collection of images in which individuals want to appear. In order to respond to the reading I also want to write about the power of images. Thus I will relate the images of Debord with the power that images gain in Jean Baudrillard's "Simulacra and Simulation." Baudrillard takes the example of Christianity and images and how these images gain too much power. By portraying religious symbols in art and creating more and more images of it, he writes that images gain too much power as the idea behind the images is already lost. With the loss of the idea behind the images, it is solely the images that have all this power, where individuals then worship the images rather than having the idea behind the images in themselves. This way the hierarchy of the idea and the individual is destroyed and there is a more personal connection between the individual and the images. This leads to a creation of a different more subtle and complicated structure then, in my opinion, that it is harder to destroy and there is no original idea behind it. To respond to the reading then, people lie because it is almost impossible to destroy these images that have too much power and individuals try to gain power through these images by mere appearance.  Since according to Debord, human relationships are mediated through images; when interacting with another individual it is extremely risky, even unthinkable to get rid of such images. Getting rid of such images then would be a senseless act as it would mean the individual is stripping themselves off of power for a mere survey. With Google however, there is no such thing as another individual and it is the safest space in which a person can be truly themselves. This is why then the surveys made through the collection of google searches might be more correct than those made in a slightly more personal basis.
