


The right to be forgotten should always be a law. Someone who regrets having information leaked about them that is not a threat to security should always be allowed to be forgotten. The concept of freedom of speech and freedom of information is inherently flawed in the first place. Since this was the main argument against the right to be forgotten I will try to deal with this. 
 The freedom in freedom of speech and freedom of information never is actually defined. In this case we do not know what freedom is. However, I will assume that freedom is an individual's existing agency in the structure of their society.  The idea of individuality especially in the US is a problematic one. Firstly, it assumes that there is such a thing as an individual, a human that exists outside of society. This would imply that a human living by themselves in the wild would have the ultimate freedom, but would also still be a human. But it is not taken into account that survival would be impossible as since the beginning of humanity, the hunter gatherers and so on, humans have always been social being. Secondly, that this existing individual has agency in the broader structure of society to make their own decisions and choices. This however is a western invention I would argue. There is no such agency in any society. There are multiple factors that constrict an individual's agency such as social class, religion, ethnicity, race, culture, etc. All these things shape and individual and impose in them a sense of right and wrong or a set of unspoken rules on how they are allowed to act. 
 Apart from this, the First Amendment is a tool to protect this individual from the state's abuse of power. Which I argue is the biggest trick played on the people of the US. This amendment strips the individual from the state's protection. If the state is supposed to be seen as an institution chosen by the people for the people, then it is the people themselves who will be deciding on the rules of information and to be protected from things they do not want to see. However, the First Amendment in a way assumes the state as an enemy of the people which gives the idea that less government is a way to a better society. This then creates confusion when other countries want their citizens protected from their information being leaked. Only because there is information about an individual stored in the US, it is not the US business to keep that information and spread it if the individual is not a citizen of the US. This has nothing to do with US sovereignty, rather it is an individual's choice that the west so clearly believes in whether to let information about them be shared or not. Whether this individual wants to be a public or a private person it also should be their own choice then.  
